.TH PROCVW 1 "April 2026" "procvw 1.0" "FreeBSD General Commands Manual"

.SH NAME
procvw \- A FreeBSD process viewer with tree, JSON, snapshot, and color support

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B procvw
[\-\-all] [\-b]
[\-\-color] [\-\-cpu-all]
[\-\-cpu-threshold CPU_THRESHOLD]
[\-f, \-\-cmd_filter CMD_FILTER]
[\-g, \-\-glyph\-style {1,2,3}]
[\-w, \-\-line-wrap]
[\-\-json] [\-\-load FILE_NAME_JSON]
[\-\-no\-header]
[\-n NUMBER]  [\-p PID]
[\-\-prune LEVEL]
[\-\-save FILE_NAME_JSON]
[\-s {cpu,mem,pid,rss,cmd}]
[\-u USER] [\-\-table]
[\-\-tree] [\-\-tree-depth N]
[\-\-show\-path] [\-\-raw]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIprocvw\fP is a process inspection tool designed for \fBFreeBSD\fP, providing both flat
and hierarchical views of system processes.

In its default mode, the tool presents a tabular overview of processes similar
to traditional utilities such as \fIps(1)\fP, with support for sorting, filtering,
and limiting output via options such as \fB--sort\fP, \fB--user\fP, and \fB--number\fP.

When used with \fB--tree\fP, \fIprocvw\fP renders processes in a hierarchical structure,
allowing inspection of parent-child relationships. Additional options such as
\fB--cpu-all\fP, \fB--tree-depth\fP, and \fB--number\fP can be used to control the level of
detail and scope of the displayed tree.

The tool supports JSON output through the \fB--json\fP option, producing either a flat
or hierarchical representation depending on the selected mode. This output can
be saved to disk using \fB--save\fP and later reloaded with \fB--load\fP, allowing offline
inspection and reproducible analysis.

Output formatting can be adjusted using options such as \fB--color\fP and \fB--line-wrap\fP,
while \fB--raw\fP provides a minimal, unformatted output suitable for scripting.

procvw is designed to operate consistently across both live system data and
previously saved snapshots, ensuring predictable behavior regardless of data
source.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\-all
.It Fl -all
Show all processes, including kernel and idle processes.

By default, \fIprocvw\fP filters out system-level entries such as the
kernel (PID 0) and idle processes. These entries typically do not
provide meaningful insight for everyday process inspection and are
therefore hidden to reduce visual noise.

When this option is specified, all processes are displayed without
filtering. This includes kernel threads, scheduler entries, and
idle processes, allowing full visibility into the system's process
state.

This option is useful for low-level system analysis, debugging,
and situations where complete process transparency is required.

.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bottom
.It Fl -bottom
Reverse the default sorting order of processes.

By default, \fIprocvw\fP sorts processes in descending order for most
metrics such as CPU and memory usage, showing the most active or
resource-intensive processes first.

When this option is specified, the sorting order is reversed,
displaying the least active or lowest values at the top instead.

For example, when sorting by CPU usage, enabling this flag will
place processes with minimal or zero CPU consumption first.

When used with command-based sorting, this option reverses the
default alphabetical order.

This option applies to both table and tree views.

.TP
.B \-\-color
.It Fl -color
Enable ANSI colorized output for process information.

When this option is specified, \fIprocvw\fP applies color formatting to
various columns in the output to improve readability and highlight
important metrics.

The following color scheme is used:

.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBPID\fP, \fBMEM\fP, \fBRSS\fP, and \fBTHR\fP columns are displayed in white to maintain
clear visibility for general numeric values.
.It

\fBCPU\fP, \fBSTARTED\fP, and \fBTIME\fP columns are rendered in gray, providing a
neutral tone for activity and timing-related metrics.

.It
\fBUSER\fP column is displayed in green to distinguish process ownership
from other fields.

.It
\fBCOMMAND\fP column is shown in cyan to clearly separate executable names
and paths from numeric data.
.El

Color output is intended for interactive terminal use and may not
be suitable for piping or redirection to files. In such cases,
consider disabling this option or using raw output modes.

This option applies for tree mode as well.

.TP
.B \-\-cpu\-all
Show subtree CPU usage for all processes in tree view.

By default, CPU values are only displayed for processes whose
aggregated subtree usage exceeds an internal threshold, or for
top-level nodes. This helps reduce visual noise in large trees.

When this option is specified, CPU usage is shown for every node,
including those with minimal or zero activity, providing a complete
view of resource distribution across the entire process hierarchy.

This option is only meaningful when used with tree mode.

.TP
.B \-\-cpu\-threshold
Display subtree CPU usage only for processes whose aggregated
CPU consumption meets or exceeds the specified threshold.

The threshold applies to the total CPU usage of a process and all
of its descendants, allowing selective visibility of nodes that
contribute meaningfully to overall system load.

Processes with subtree CPU usage below the threshold are shown
without CPU values, reducing clutter in large trees while still
preserving structural context.

This option is only effective in tree mode.

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-cmd\-filter \fB\fICMD_FILTER\fP
Filter processes by command name.

Only processes whose command matches the specified pattern are
included in the output. Matching is performed against the command
field as displayed in the output, and may include partial matches.

This option is useful for isolating specific applications or services
within large process lists, allowing focused inspection of relevant
subsets.

When used in combination with the \fB--tree\fP option, parent processes may still
be shown to preserve hierarchy if they contain matching descendants.

\fBNote:\fP
    Filtering is applied prior to rendering, and affects both
    table and tree views. In tree mode, non-matching nodes may
    still appear if they from part of the path to a matching
    process.

.TP
.B \-g, \-\-glyph\-style {1,2,3}
Select the character set used for rendering the process tree.

Three styles are available: a classic line-based layout, option 1,
a simplified ASCII variant for maximum compatibility, option 2, and an
enhanced style with additional glyphs for improved visual clarity,
option 3.

\fBNote:\fP
    the ASCII style is recommended for terminals with limited
    character support, while the enhanced style provides a more
    expressive view on modern systems.

.TP
.B \-\-json
--json
Output process data in JSON format.

When used in standard mode, a flat list of processes is produced.

When combined with tree mode, the output preserves hierarchical
parent-child relationships.

When used with the \fB\fI--load\P option, the stored snapshot is emitted
in JSON format using the same structure.

.TP
.B \-w, \-\-line-wrap
Allow long COMMAND fields to wrap onto the next line instead of being truncated.

By default, \fIprocvw\fP truncates the COMMAND column to ensure that each process entry
fits on a single line within the terminal width. This preserves table alignment
and prevents visual corruption caused by terminal line wrapping.

When this flag is enabled, truncation is disabled and full command paths are
displayed. If a command exceeds the terminal width, it will wrap onto the next
line.

This option may reduce readability in dense output but is useful when full
command visibility is required.

.TP
.B \-\-load \fB\fIFILE_NAME\fP
Load process data from a previously saved JSON snapshot.

The specified file must contain data produced by the save functionality
of this tool. When loaded, the snapshot is rendered using the same
formatting and filtering options as live process data.

By default, loaded data is displayed in tree view. The \fB--table\fP
option may be used to render the snapshot in table format instead.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Suppress the column header in the table output.

When specified, column titles and separator lines are omitted,
leaving only the processes data. This is useful for scripting or
when piping output to other tools.

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-number
Limit the number of processes displayed.

In table mode, this option restricts the output to the first N
processes after filtering and sorting have been applied.

In tree mode, this option limits the number of visible processes
based on the selected view. When used with standard tree output,
it affects which processes are included before rendering.

When used together with JSON tree output, this option limits the
total number of nodes emitted. The resulting structure may be
truncated and not represent a complete process hierarchy.

This option is useful for reducing output size when working with
large process lists or exporting data for inspection.

.TP
.B \-\-pid
Display only the process with the specified ID.

When this option is used, the output is limited to the selected
process. In tree mode, the surrounding hierarchy may be included
to preserve context within the process tree.

.TP
.B \-\-prune \fILEVEL\fP
Control pruning of low-value branches in tree view.

LEVEL:
    0   Disable pruning (show full tree)
    1   Hide trivial system processes (default-style pruning)
    2   Hide all zero CPU/memory processes
    3   Aggressive pruning (show only significant activity)

\fBNote:\fP
    - Only applies in --tree mode
    - Higher levels reduce visual noise in large process trees

.TP
.B \-\-save \fB\fIFILE_NAME\fP
Save the current process snapshot to a JSON file.

The output is written in a structured format suitable for later
inspection or reuse with the load functionality. The saved data
captures the process hierarchy and associated metadata at the
time of execution.

If teh specified filename foes not include a .json extension,
it is appended automatically.

.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sort {cpu,mem,pid,rss,thr,cmd}
Sort processes based on the specified key.

Available options include CPU usage, memory usage, process ID,
resident memory size, threads, and command name. Sorting is applied
prior to rendering and affects both table and tree views.

In tree mode, sorting is performed among sibling processes while
preserving the overall hierarchy.

When sorting by command name, results are ordered in ascending
alphabetical order by default. This order can be reversed using
the \fB--bottom\fP option.

.TP
.B \-u, \-\-user \fB\fIUSER\fP
Display only processes owned by the specified user.

When this option is used, the output is filtered to include only
processes associated with the given user account. This applies to
both table and tree views.

In tree mode, parent processes may still be shown to preserve the
hierarchical path to matching entries.

.TP
.B \-\-table
Display process data in a flat table format.

When used, the hierarchical tree view is disabled and processes
are presented as a sorted list with column-based output. This
mode is the default for live process inspection.

When loading a snapshot, table view can be explicitly requested
to override the default tree representation.

.TP
.B \-\-tree
Display processes in a hierarchical tree view.

In this mode, processes are organized according to their parent-child
relationships, providing a structured view of the system. Each node
represents a process, with indentation indicating its position within
the hierarchy.

Sorting, filtering, and CPU display options are applied within the
tree while preserving the overall structure. By default, only selected
CPU values are shown to reduce visual noise.

This mode is enabled automatically when loading a snapshot, unless
overridden by the \fB--table\fP option.

.TP
.B \-\-tree\-depth \fITREE_DEPTH\fP
Limit the depth of the process tree.

Only processes up to the specified depth are displayed, where the
top-level processes are considered depth one. Deeper levels of the
hierarchy are omitted, allowing focused inspection of higher-level
relationships.

This option applies only in tree mode.

.TP
.B \-\-show\-path
Display the full command, including executable path and arguments.

By default, only the command name is shown. When this option is
enabled, the complete command line is displayed, providing additional
context such as invocation parameters and execution paths.

This option is intended for use with tree mode.

.TP
.B \-\-raw
Display raw process data without formatting.

When enabled, output is presented without column alignment, color,
or additional formatting, showing values in their unmodified form.
This mode is intended for scripting, debugging, or inspection of
the underlying data as retrieved from the system.

This option applies to table output.

\fBNote:\fP
    This option disables all formatting, including color output.
    It cannot be used together with the --color flag.

.SH NOTES
The tree view reflects parent-child relationships as reported by
the system and may vary depending on process state and timing.

CPU values shown in tree mode represent aggregated usage across
a process and its descendants, and are intended for relative
inspection rather than precise measurement.

Snapshot files are only guaranteed to be compatible when generated
by this tool.

The \fB--prune\fP option applies only when the \fB--tree\fP option
is used and has no effect on table or JSON output modes.

Increasing the prune level progressively reduces visual noise by hiding
low-activity or non-essential processes, making large process trees
easier to read and interpret.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Show top processes by CPU:
.B procvw \-\-sort cpu

.TP
Tree view with color:
.B procvw \-\-tree \-\-color

.TP
Save snapshot:
.B procvw \-\-save snapshot.json

.TP
Load snapshot (default view for \fB--load\fP is tree mode):
.B procvw \-\-load snapshot.json

.TP
Load and show as table:
.B procvw \-\-load snapshot.json \-\-table

.TP
Display the complete process tree with no pruning applied
.B procvw \-\-tree \-\-prune 0

.TP
Display raw output (perfect for scripting)
.B procvw \-\-raw

.TP
Show path for commands in tabular output while line-wrapping
.B procvw \-\-show\-path \-\-line\-wrapping

.TP

.B procv

.TP

.B

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Johnsson a.k.a FerusX.Swe (hedningakjetil@gmail.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
ps(1), top(1), tree(1)

Designed for clarity and inspection of process hierarchies on
FreeBSD systems.